New issue

Have a question about this project? Sign up for a free GitHub account to open an issue and contact its maintainers and the community.

By clicking “Sign up for GitHub”, you agree to our terms of service and privacy statement. We’ll occasionally send you account related emails.

Already on GitHub? Sign in to your account

Task Force: African Guides #118

Closed
anelda opened this Issue May 23, 2016 · 46 comments

Comments

Projects
None yet
@anelda

anelda commented May 23, 2016

Hi all,

In order to help the 23 instructor trainees who participated in training in April 2016 in South Africa, @apawlik suggested we recruit help from the community. Our volunteer guides currently include @weaverbel @dpshelio and @mjcollin.

We are interested to perform our activities as a task force.

Our goal is to help instructor trainees from the April 2016 workshop to qualify as instructors.

Our aims include:

  • Meeting with assigned groups of trainees to discuss next steps
  • Helping them to do their pull request to a lesson
  • Helping them to participate in the discussion session
  • Preparing with them to teach their lesson at the final checkout

The timeline is before April 2017, but ideally over the next two to three months (June, July, August).

Resources: To date we have recruited 3 volunteers. Each volunteer guide has been assigned a group of instructor trainees based on their area of research or geographic location. Belinda - 9, Matthew - 6, David - 4. The last four trainees will be assigned to another volunteer - we're just waiting for final confirmation. This should be do-able but if it is too much work, we may need to recruit one or two more volunteers over the course of this project to assist our guides. We won't need other resources to complete the project.

We think running this project as a task force is well-aligned with the aims of SCF. @mjcollin suggested that this work may lead to the establishment of for example a subcommittee looking at African efforts. It may also spur similar activities in other parts of the world.

@weaverbel

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@weaverbel

weaverbel May 23, 2016

Contributor

Happy to +1 this - it would be good to structure the work more so that we can assess how we did later with some degree of confidence.

Contributor

weaverbel commented May 23, 2016

Happy to +1 this - it would be good to structure the work more so that we can assess how we did later with some degree of confidence.

@debpaul

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@debpaul

debpaul May 23, 2016

an enthusiastic +1 from me too. Great idea to mentor our novice instructors.

debpaul commented May 23, 2016

an enthusiastic +1 from me too. Great idea to mentor our novice instructors.

@rgaiacs

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@rgaiacs

rgaiacs May 23, 2016

Contributor

@anelda Thanks for the proposal. This looks good to me.

Contributor

rgaiacs commented May 23, 2016

@anelda Thanks for the proposal. This looks good to me.

@BillMills

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@BillMills

BillMills May 25, 2016

Contributor

Big fan of this, great work @anelda. Couple points:

  • I'd encourage you to push for completion in three months. 90 days seems to be a bit of a magic number for completion of instructor training checkout; longer than that is fine by us, but starts dragging for the participants.
  • (and this one's for @weaverbel too): what can we do to highlight this work to the community? Blog posts, anything else? Not only is this project intrinsically cool, it's also our first task force, so it'd be good to take the opportunity to highlight what's going on with that program more broadly.
Contributor

BillMills commented May 25, 2016

Big fan of this, great work @anelda. Couple points:

  • I'd encourage you to push for completion in three months. 90 days seems to be a bit of a magic number for completion of instructor training checkout; longer than that is fine by us, but starts dragging for the participants.
  • (and this one's for @weaverbel too): what can we do to highlight this work to the community? Blog posts, anything else? Not only is this project intrinsically cool, it's also our first task force, so it'd be good to take the opportunity to highlight what's going on with that program more broadly.
@BillMills

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@BillMills

BillMills May 26, 2016

Contributor

Oh actually and:

  • This task force will need a Steering Committee liaison if it is approved (it will almost certainly be approved). I volunteer @weaverbel since she's already involved, or myself if Belinda would rather not.
Contributor

BillMills commented May 26, 2016

Oh actually and:

  • This task force will need a Steering Committee liaison if it is approved (it will almost certainly be approved). I volunteer @weaverbel since she's already involved, or myself if Belinda would rather not.
@tracykteal

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@tracykteal

tracykteal May 26, 2016

Contributor

👍 This also more broadly fits in to the Guide program that @weaverbel, @apawlik, @ErinBecker and others on the mentoring subcommittee have been working on, so this could be a pilot for that and/or an opportunity to see what's working effectively.

Also like @mjcollin idea of a subcomittee focused on efforts in Africa.

Contributor

tracykteal commented May 26, 2016

👍 This also more broadly fits in to the Guide program that @weaverbel, @apawlik, @ErinBecker and others on the mentoring subcommittee have been working on, so this could be a pilot for that and/or an opportunity to see what's working effectively.

Also like @mjcollin idea of a subcomittee focused on efforts in Africa.

@henrykironde

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@henrykironde

henrykironde May 26, 2016

Hi @anelda great idea. I am excited to be part of this and provide any help needed.

henrykironde commented May 26, 2016

Hi @anelda great idea. I am excited to be part of this and provide any help needed.

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda May 26, 2016

Hi all, thanks so much for the positive response! @henrykironde - great to meet you! We're still looking for instructors to come and teach with our new instructors during their first workshops as well...

@BillMills - what happens next? Does this suggestion go to steer com? Do we have to write a formal document? I think at the very least those who'd like to play a role should meet online to discuss where we are and what's planned for the next 3 months? Would that work?

We recently published the 12-month programme [1](where this idea was born) in FigShare if anyone wants more background info. Once we know exactly what this task force is going to do, we can write a blog post to describe the plans?

[1] https://figshare.com/articles/A_Programme_for_the_Development_of_Computational_and_Digital_Research_Capacity_in_South_Africa_and_Africa_-_phase_1/3382168

anelda commented May 26, 2016

Hi all, thanks so much for the positive response! @henrykironde - great to meet you! We're still looking for instructors to come and teach with our new instructors during their first workshops as well...

@BillMills - what happens next? Does this suggestion go to steer com? Do we have to write a formal document? I think at the very least those who'd like to play a role should meet online to discuss where we are and what's planned for the next 3 months? Would that work?

We recently published the 12-month programme [1](where this idea was born) in FigShare if anyone wants more background info. Once we know exactly what this task force is going to do, we can write a blog post to describe the plans?

[1] https://figshare.com/articles/A_Programme_for_the_Development_of_Computational_and_Digital_Research_Capacity_in_South_Africa_and_Africa_-_phase_1/3382168

@henrykironde

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@henrykironde

henrykironde May 26, 2016

@anelda this is a great document, I have been trying to draft something like this to increase the African involvement in this program. we should definitively discus more about the same.

henrykironde commented May 26, 2016

@anelda this is a great document, I have been trying to draft something like this to increase the African involvement in this program. we should definitively discus more about the same.

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda May 26, 2016

@henrykironde wonderful! Sounds like we should try to get together on a Hangout sooner rather than later to share ideas?

anelda commented May 26, 2016

@henrykironde wonderful! Sounds like we should try to get together on a Hangout sooner rather than later to share ideas?

@henrykironde

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@henrykironde

henrykironde May 26, 2016

@anelda how does Friday 5/26/2016 between 2-4 pm sound?

henrykironde commented May 26, 2016

@anelda how does Friday 5/26/2016 between 2-4 pm sound?

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda May 26, 2016

@henrykironde Friday 5/27/2016? 2-4pm in which time zone?

anelda commented May 26, 2016

@henrykironde Friday 5/27/2016? 2-4pm in which time zone?

@henrykironde

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@henrykironde

henrykironde May 26, 2016

@anelda, how about 5:00 PM (17:00) South Africa Time = 11:00 AM (11:00) Florida Time

henrykironde commented May 26, 2016

@anelda, how about 5:00 PM (17:00) South Africa Time = 11:00 AM (11:00) Florida Time

@ErinBecker

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@ErinBecker

ErinBecker May 26, 2016

@anelda This looks great! I'm excited to see the guiding program picking up steam.

I second @weaverbel comment that it would be a good idea to structure your work for later assessment, and would add that any documentation that you can do along the way will be very helpful in extending this type of program to other communities and groups of instructors. In particular, it would be great if you could document things like:

  • Approximately how many hours of total time commitment does this end up being for each guide?
  • How many trainees per guide seems ideal? Was nine too many? Four too few?
  • What sorts of help do the trainees seem to need most? Are they interested in things like practice teaching sessions? Nervous about their teaching demo? Confused about how GitHub works?
  • If you run practice teaching sessions - how do you structure them?
  • Did geographical proximity matter? Did similarity in academic field matter? Why or why not?

I'm really looking forward to following the "tasks force's" process and seeing your great results!

ErinBecker commented May 26, 2016

@anelda This looks great! I'm excited to see the guiding program picking up steam.

I second @weaverbel comment that it would be a good idea to structure your work for later assessment, and would add that any documentation that you can do along the way will be very helpful in extending this type of program to other communities and groups of instructors. In particular, it would be great if you could document things like:

  • Approximately how many hours of total time commitment does this end up being for each guide?
  • How many trainees per guide seems ideal? Was nine too many? Four too few?
  • What sorts of help do the trainees seem to need most? Are they interested in things like practice teaching sessions? Nervous about their teaching demo? Confused about how GitHub works?
  • If you run practice teaching sessions - how do you structure them?
  • Did geographical proximity matter? Did similarity in academic field matter? Why or why not?

I'm really looking forward to following the "tasks force's" process and seeing your great results!

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda May 27, 2016

Would this time suit anyone else? I could definitely make it.
On 26 May 2016 7:53 PM, "Henry Senyondo" notifications@github.com wrote:

@anelda https://github.com/anelda, how about 5:00 PM (17:00) South
Africa Time = 11:00 AM (11:00) Florida Time


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub
#118 (comment)

anelda commented May 27, 2016

Would this time suit anyone else? I could definitely make it.
On 26 May 2016 7:53 PM, "Henry Senyondo" notifications@github.com wrote:

@anelda https://github.com/anelda, how about 5:00 PM (17:00) South
Africa Time = 11:00 AM (11:00) Florida Time


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub
#118 (comment)

@henrykironde

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment

henrykironde commented May 27, 2016

@henrykironde

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@henrykironde

henrykironde May 27, 2016

The meeting has ended. We can set up the next meeting some other time.

henrykironde commented May 27, 2016

The meeting has ended. We can set up the next meeting some other time.

@BillMills

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@BillMills

BillMills May 27, 2016

Contributor

@anelda I will make a motion at the next Steering meeting to ratify this task force as you have described it in your original post above; feel free to edit this post if you like (though IMO no edits are needed). Steering doesn't require any other action on your part until then - you're all set up! There are already 3 SC members on this list who have responded positively to this; @k8hertweck @JasonJWilliamsNY @raynamharris @karinlag, tentatively and unofficially, does the top post here look like a task force proposal you can approve? Please suggest any edits in advance of our 6/16 meeting.

After that, you will be responsible for meeting with your SC liaison (@weaverbel is the logical choice IMO) in advance of SC meetings, to give a status update so we can be aware of your progress - everything else is up to you! Please don't hesitate to reach out to any member of Steering if we can help you accomplish your goals in any way. I'm very excited for this work!

Contributor

BillMills commented May 27, 2016

@anelda I will make a motion at the next Steering meeting to ratify this task force as you have described it in your original post above; feel free to edit this post if you like (though IMO no edits are needed). Steering doesn't require any other action on your part until then - you're all set up! There are already 3 SC members on this list who have responded positively to this; @k8hertweck @JasonJWilliamsNY @raynamharris @karinlag, tentatively and unofficially, does the top post here look like a task force proposal you can approve? Please suggest any edits in advance of our 6/16 meeting.

After that, you will be responsible for meeting with your SC liaison (@weaverbel is the logical choice IMO) in advance of SC meetings, to give a status update so we can be aware of your progress - everything else is up to you! Please don't hesitate to reach out to any member of Steering if we can help you accomplish your goals in any way. I'm very excited for this work!

@weaverbel

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@weaverbel

weaverbel May 29, 2016

Contributor

Glad to see this is getting some traction. The only issue is connecting - I have pinged @anelda about the terrible connection problems we had with both Blue Jeans and Hangouts on 25 May. I have also left notes in the mentoring committee etherpad. Am testing another video technology tomorrow - fingers crossed we get a good result there or we won't be guiding ! I will only write a blog post when I have progress to report @BillMills

Contributor

weaverbel commented May 29, 2016

Glad to see this is getting some traction. The only issue is connecting - I have pinged @anelda about the terrible connection problems we had with both Blue Jeans and Hangouts on 25 May. I have also left notes in the mentoring committee etherpad. Am testing another video technology tomorrow - fingers crossed we get a good result there or we won't be guiding ! I will only write a blog post when I have progress to report @BillMills

@mjcollin

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@mjcollin

mjcollin May 30, 2016

Member

I was hoping that audio-only would be good enough for an introductory meeting. Screen sharing and video are almost certainly going to be impossible. Even to Korea and Japan (from the US) it's marginal. There just are not enough wires out of Africa and no one has servers there. Everything has to go to Europe and back at least. The best hope would be to find an African service that is hosted in SA, Nigeria, or Kenya. Looking...

I can try AdobeConnect as well to see how the audio is there. We had about 4-8 seconds of delay when sharing screens with it while teaching in Kenya though. It was ok for slides but we abandoned it for live typing. It may be acceptable for audio.

For teaching, we can ask people to record and watch later and discuss via audio. It's not ideal but we're going to have to make some accommodations otherwise, yes, we won't be very helpful.

Member

mjcollin commented May 30, 2016

I was hoping that audio-only would be good enough for an introductory meeting. Screen sharing and video are almost certainly going to be impossible. Even to Korea and Japan (from the US) it's marginal. There just are not enough wires out of Africa and no one has servers there. Everything has to go to Europe and back at least. The best hope would be to find an African service that is hosted in SA, Nigeria, or Kenya. Looking...

I can try AdobeConnect as well to see how the audio is there. We had about 4-8 seconds of delay when sharing screens with it while teaching in Kenya though. It was ok for slides but we abandoned it for live typing. It may be acceptable for audio.

For teaching, we can ask people to record and watch later and discuss via audio. It's not ideal but we're going to have to make some accommodations otherwise, yes, we won't be very helpful.

@weaverbel

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@weaverbel

weaverbel May 30, 2016

Contributor

Weirdly @mjcollin I could get video but not audio of people - I would have thought video would eat more bandwidth. Definitely a frustrating aspect of this project - when we only wanted to help ... Keen to hear if AdobeConnect works. Whatever works !

Contributor

weaverbel commented May 30, 2016

Weirdly @mjcollin I could get video but not audio of people - I would have thought video would eat more bandwidth. Definitely a frustrating aspect of this project - when we only wanted to help ... Keen to hear if AdobeConnect works. Whatever works !

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda May 30, 2016

Hi @mjcollin @weaverbel thanks so much for your feedback about connection challenges. I think we should be careful to accept that the technology is the limiting factor. I am in Africa and have several online meetings weekly and hardly ever experience the challenges you mention. At least in South Africa everyone at a University have access to good bandwidth. There may be a few rural campuses or folks off-campus who don't have great access, but in general this is the case for our instructor trainees. I can't speak for our colleagues in Namibia, Zimbabwe, Kenya, and Nigeria.

I think it is important to ensure people are following best practices for their online meetings. You would have seen my email to everyone this morning in this respect - connect to cable rather than wifi, connect in a quiet area, etc. There is technically no reason why this shouldn't work at SA universities and if we can help in any way by connecting our instructors to the technology available at their institutions, then that's a great side-effect of this project. Please let me know if the challenges persist so that we can intervene.

We also have Vidyo available in SA through TENET [1]. If the problems persist, we can ask our colleagues at TENET to help.

[1] https://tenetvc.wordpress.com/

anelda commented May 30, 2016

Hi @mjcollin @weaverbel thanks so much for your feedback about connection challenges. I think we should be careful to accept that the technology is the limiting factor. I am in Africa and have several online meetings weekly and hardly ever experience the challenges you mention. At least in South Africa everyone at a University have access to good bandwidth. There may be a few rural campuses or folks off-campus who don't have great access, but in general this is the case for our instructor trainees. I can't speak for our colleagues in Namibia, Zimbabwe, Kenya, and Nigeria.

I think it is important to ensure people are following best practices for their online meetings. You would have seen my email to everyone this morning in this respect - connect to cable rather than wifi, connect in a quiet area, etc. There is technically no reason why this shouldn't work at SA universities and if we can help in any way by connecting our instructors to the technology available at their institutions, then that's a great side-effect of this project. Please let me know if the challenges persist so that we can intervene.

We also have Vidyo available in SA through TENET [1]. If the problems persist, we can ask our colleagues at TENET to help.

[1] https://tenetvc.wordpress.com/

@k8hertweck

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@k8hertweck

k8hertweck May 30, 2016

Contributor

@BillMills Thanks for the tag; I'm happy to approve this proposal as discussed above.

Contributor

k8hertweck commented May 30, 2016

@BillMills Thanks for the tag; I'm happy to approve this proposal as discussed above.

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda May 30, 2016

Just an update. I'm communicating with TENET and it seems like we may have a better solution. I'll follow up with more information during the course of today.

anelda commented May 30, 2016

Just an update. I'm communicating with TENET and it seems like we may have a better solution. I'll follow up with more information during the course of today.

@weaverbel

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@weaverbel

weaverbel Jun 14, 2016

Contributor

Just to update everyone on where this is at, especially @anelda @ErinBecker @JasonJWilliamsNY who must think I have dropped off the twig - sorry - I have just been FLAT OUT.

I managed to do a (successful!) practice teaching session last night with two trainee instructors. It should have been 3 but one had to postpone because of family illness. I plan to ping all my people via email tomorrow, and also create new teaching session and lesson discussion times for people to sign up to on my etherpad. I would have done this sooner but have just been swamped by the massive workload of the Library Carpentry sprint and then teaching Library Carpentry this week which required a HUGE amount of preparation as I had not taught it before. Anyway, all done - so I am ready to do more SA action, which is doing some good, I think.

I also included an English trainee instructor from my own instructor training round in last night's session and thought he was pretty good so I will now be passing him off to @gvwilson for final certification.

So I am now a multi-hemisphere guide !

Contributor

weaverbel commented Jun 14, 2016

Just to update everyone on where this is at, especially @anelda @ErinBecker @JasonJWilliamsNY who must think I have dropped off the twig - sorry - I have just been FLAT OUT.

I managed to do a (successful!) practice teaching session last night with two trainee instructors. It should have been 3 but one had to postpone because of family illness. I plan to ping all my people via email tomorrow, and also create new teaching session and lesson discussion times for people to sign up to on my etherpad. I would have done this sooner but have just been swamped by the massive workload of the Library Carpentry sprint and then teaching Library Carpentry this week which required a HUGE amount of preparation as I had not taught it before. Anyway, all done - so I am ready to do more SA action, which is doing some good, I think.

I also included an English trainee instructor from my own instructor training round in last night's session and thought he was pretty good so I will now be passing him off to @gvwilson for final certification.

So I am now a multi-hemisphere guide !

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Jun 14, 2016

You're a rockstar! Thanks for the update! I've put the Mafikeng trainees in
touch with IT to assist with connectivity problems. They should all be able
to connect successfully next round. Thanks @weaverbel!

On Tue, Jun 14, 2016 at 12:10 PM, Belinda Weaver notifications@github.com
wrote:

Just to update everyone on where this is at, especially @anelda
https://github.com/anelda @ErinBecker https://github.com/ErinBecker
@JasonJWilliamsNY https://github.com/JasonJWilliamsNY who must think I
have dropped off the twig - sorry - I have just been FLAT OUT.

I managed to do a (successful!) practice teaching session last night with
two trainee instructors. It should have been 3 but one had to postpone
because of family illness. I plan to ping all my people via email tomorrow,
and also create new teaching session and lesson discussion times for people
to sign up to on my etherpad. I would have done this sooner but have just
been swamped by the massive workload of the Library Carpentry sprint and
then teaching Library Carpentry this week which required a HUGE amount of
preparation as I had not taught it before. Anyway, all done - so I am ready
to do more SA action, which is doing some good, I think.

I also included an English trainee instructor from my own instructor
training round in last night's session and thought he was pretty good so I
will now be passing him off to @gvwilson https://github.com/gvwilson
for final certification.

So I am now a multi-hemisphere guide !


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/AG4XprOiWwiXPDogy9brANzFlSf0Oc39ks5qLn4zgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

anelda commented Jun 14, 2016

You're a rockstar! Thanks for the update! I've put the Mafikeng trainees in
touch with IT to assist with connectivity problems. They should all be able
to connect successfully next round. Thanks @weaverbel!

On Tue, Jun 14, 2016 at 12:10 PM, Belinda Weaver notifications@github.com
wrote:

Just to update everyone on where this is at, especially @anelda
https://github.com/anelda @ErinBecker https://github.com/ErinBecker
@JasonJWilliamsNY https://github.com/JasonJWilliamsNY who must think I
have dropped off the twig - sorry - I have just been FLAT OUT.

I managed to do a (successful!) practice teaching session last night with
two trainee instructors. It should have been 3 but one had to postpone
because of family illness. I plan to ping all my people via email tomorrow,
and also create new teaching session and lesson discussion times for people
to sign up to on my etherpad. I would have done this sooner but have just
been swamped by the massive workload of the Library Carpentry sprint and
then teaching Library Carpentry this week which required a HUGE amount of
preparation as I had not taught it before. Anyway, all done - so I am ready
to do more SA action, which is doing some good, I think.

I also included an English trainee instructor from my own instructor
training round in last night's session and thought he was pretty good so I
will now be passing him off to @gvwilson https://github.com/gvwilson
for final certification.

So I am now a multi-hemisphere guide !


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/AG4XprOiWwiXPDogy9brANzFlSf0Oc39ks5qLn4zgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

@ErinBecker

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@ErinBecker

ErinBecker Jun 14, 2016

Thanks @weaverbel! That all sounds very exciting and productive! Did you
happen to either record the practice teaching session or take notes that
will help us reproduce your great work? I'd really like to see practice
teaching sessions begin to be offered more broadly to new instructors in
future and would love to see how you're running them.

On Tue, Jun 14, 2016 at 3:10 AM, Belinda Weaver notifications@github.com
wrote:

Just to update everyone on where this is at, especially @anelda
https://github.com/anelda @ErinBecker https://github.com/ErinBecker
@JasonJWilliamsNY https://github.com/JasonJWilliamsNY who must think I
have dropped off the twig - sorry - I have just been FLAT OUT.

I managed to do a (successful!) practice teaching session last night with
two trainee instructors. It should have been 3 but one had to postpone
because of family illness. I plan to ping all my people via email tomorrow,
and also create new teaching session and lesson discussion times for people
to sign up to on my etherpad. I would have done this sooner but have just
been swamped by the massive workload of the Library Carpentry sprint and
then teaching Library Carpentry this week which required a HUGE amount of
preparation as I had not taught it before. Anyway, all done - so I am ready
to do more SA action, which is doing some good, I think.

I also included an English trainee instructor from my own instructor
training round in last night's session and thought he was pretty good so I
will now be passing him off to @gvwilson https://github.com/gvwilson
for final certification.

So I am now a multi-hemisphere guide !


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/ASSbf9B2DhHRzSAW9Aj6LwpALoGeFlmhks5qLn4zgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

Erin Becker, PhD
Data Carpentry, Associate Director
http://www.datacarpentry.org/
Research Associate, MMG Dept., UC Davis

ErinBecker commented Jun 14, 2016

Thanks @weaverbel! That all sounds very exciting and productive! Did you
happen to either record the practice teaching session or take notes that
will help us reproduce your great work? I'd really like to see practice
teaching sessions begin to be offered more broadly to new instructors in
future and would love to see how you're running them.

On Tue, Jun 14, 2016 at 3:10 AM, Belinda Weaver notifications@github.com
wrote:

Just to update everyone on where this is at, especially @anelda
https://github.com/anelda @ErinBecker https://github.com/ErinBecker
@JasonJWilliamsNY https://github.com/JasonJWilliamsNY who must think I
have dropped off the twig - sorry - I have just been FLAT OUT.

I managed to do a (successful!) practice teaching session last night with
two trainee instructors. It should have been 3 but one had to postpone
because of family illness. I plan to ping all my people via email tomorrow,
and also create new teaching session and lesson discussion times for people
to sign up to on my etherpad. I would have done this sooner but have just
been swamped by the massive workload of the Library Carpentry sprint and
then teaching Library Carpentry this week which required a HUGE amount of
preparation as I had not taught it before. Anyway, all done - so I am ready
to do more SA action, which is doing some good, I think.

I also included an English trainee instructor from my own instructor
training round in last night's session and thought he was pretty good so I
will now be passing him off to @gvwilson https://github.com/gvwilson
for final certification.

So I am now a multi-hemisphere guide !


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/ASSbf9B2DhHRzSAW9Aj6LwpALoGeFlmhks5qLn4zgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

Erin Becker, PhD
Data Carpentry, Associate Director
http://www.datacarpentry.org/
Research Associate, MMG Dept., UC Davis

@jduckles

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@jduckles

jduckles Jun 14, 2016

Contributor

Just wanted to chime in and say thank you to all of you for working as guides and helping to structure the program, we should certainly document this model of guiding and make it a common practice. My recent trips to Brazil and Mexico are going to lead to instructors being trained who do not have a local support group that will help prepare them to teach for the first time. I feel this guiding system will be a great way to get senior instructors to offer support and guidance to new instructors as we add them around the world. Thanks everyone!

Contributor

jduckles commented Jun 14, 2016

Just wanted to chime in and say thank you to all of you for working as guides and helping to structure the program, we should certainly document this model of guiding and make it a common practice. My recent trips to Brazil and Mexico are going to lead to instructors being trained who do not have a local support group that will help prepare them to teach for the first time. I feel this guiding system will be a great way to get senior instructors to offer support and guidance to new instructors as we add them around the world. Thanks everyone!

@weaverbel

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@weaverbel

weaverbel Jun 14, 2016

Contributor

Hi @ErinBecker @anelda I am using the etherpad to record the session feedback. What I do is what @gvwilson does, I think - people jump right into live coding (via a screenshare) for five minutes on a lesson they have prepared. They then reflect on how they have done (verbally), and others then give verbal feedback but feedback is also captured in the etherpad for people to reflect on later. Two people from the session did not put their feedback in, which is a shame so I will emphasise the importance of that more next time. Etherpad URL: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/saguides

Contributor

weaverbel commented Jun 14, 2016

Hi @ErinBecker @anelda I am using the etherpad to record the session feedback. What I do is what @gvwilson does, I think - people jump right into live coding (via a screenshare) for five minutes on a lesson they have prepared. They then reflect on how they have done (verbally), and others then give verbal feedback but feedback is also captured in the etherpad for people to reflect on later. Two people from the session did not put their feedback in, which is a shame so I will emphasise the importance of that more next time. Etherpad URL: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/saguides

@ErinBecker

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@ErinBecker

ErinBecker Jun 15, 2016

Fantastic! Thanks @weaverbel. I'll take a look at the etherpad.

On Tue, Jun 14, 2016 at 4:04 PM, Belinda Weaver notifications@github.com
wrote:

Hi @ErinBecker https://github.com/ErinBecker @anelda
https://github.com/anelda I am using the etherpad to record the session
feedback. What I do is what @gvwilson https://github.com/gvwilson does,
I think - people jump right into live coding for five minutes on a lesson
they have prepared via a screenshare. They then reflect on how they have
done (verbally), and others then give verbal feedback but feedback is
also captured in the etherpad for people to reflect on later. Two
people from the session did not put their feedback in, which is a shame so
I will emphasise the importance of that more next time.


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/ASSbfw9dKY54xcin73WTCfDmByx3BRnXks5qLzN8gaJpZM4IkLCw
.

Erin Becker, PhD
Data Carpentry, Associate Director
http://www.datacarpentry.org/
Research Associate, MMG Dept., UC Davis

ErinBecker commented Jun 15, 2016

Fantastic! Thanks @weaverbel. I'll take a look at the etherpad.

On Tue, Jun 14, 2016 at 4:04 PM, Belinda Weaver notifications@github.com
wrote:

Hi @ErinBecker https://github.com/ErinBecker @anelda
https://github.com/anelda I am using the etherpad to record the session
feedback. What I do is what @gvwilson https://github.com/gvwilson does,
I think - people jump right into live coding for five minutes on a lesson
they have prepared via a screenshare. They then reflect on how they have
done (verbally), and others then give verbal feedback but feedback is
also captured in the etherpad for people to reflect on later. Two
people from the session did not put their feedback in, which is a shame so
I will emphasise the importance of that more next time.


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/ASSbfw9dKY54xcin73WTCfDmByx3BRnXks5qLzN8gaJpZM4IkLCw
.

Erin Becker, PhD
Data Carpentry, Associate Director
http://www.datacarpentry.org/
Research Associate, MMG Dept., UC Davis

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Jun 15, 2016

Some feedback from our call today (3 continents, 5 time zones):

  • encourage instructor trainees to teach the material that are available rather than develop their own material - especially the first time around
  • provide some more guidance on how to give feedback to other instructor trainees when they're teaching their trial lesson
  • some people might not feel comfortable to teach at their home institutions - we should try to help them find alternative spots to run their first workshop - other organisations iHubs, etc
  • various platforms for video meetings are now used, seems like Skype, Vidyo, Hangouts are all working (mostly)
  • try to create an awareness about our activities in Africa so that others planning workshops here are aware of our efforts and consider including these trainees as helpers or co-instructors in their workshops

Thanks everyone for your dedication and time! Please add what I've missed.

anelda commented Jun 15, 2016

Some feedback from our call today (3 continents, 5 time zones):

  • encourage instructor trainees to teach the material that are available rather than develop their own material - especially the first time around
  • provide some more guidance on how to give feedback to other instructor trainees when they're teaching their trial lesson
  • some people might not feel comfortable to teach at their home institutions - we should try to help them find alternative spots to run their first workshop - other organisations iHubs, etc
  • various platforms for video meetings are now used, seems like Skype, Vidyo, Hangouts are all working (mostly)
  • try to create an awareness about our activities in Africa so that others planning workshops here are aware of our efforts and consider including these trainees as helpers or co-instructors in their workshops

Thanks everyone for your dedication and time! Please add what I've missed.

@ErinBecker

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@ErinBecker

ErinBecker Jun 15, 2016

Thanks Anelda!

On Wed, Jun 15, 2016 at 2:13 PM, Anelda van der Walt <
notifications@github.com> wrote:

Some feedback from our call today (3 continents, 5 time zones):

  • encourage instructor trainees to teach the material that are
    available rather than develop their own material - especially the first
    time around
  • provide some more guidance on how to give feedback to other
    instructor trainees when they're teaching their trial lesson
  • some people might not feel comfortable to teach at their home
    institutions - we should try to help them find alternative spots to run
    their first workshop - other organisations iHubs, etc
  • various platforms for video meetings are now used, seems like Skype,
    Vidyo, Hangouts are all working (mostly)
  • try to create an awareness about our activities in Africa so that
    others planning workshops here are aware of our efforts and consider
    including these trainees as helpers or co-instructors in their workshops

Thanks everyone for your dedication and time! Please add what I've missed.


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/ASSbf0Dqv9otvn_JliB5GPSrM1huj85Xks5qMGrcgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

Erin Becker, PhD
Data Carpentry, Associate Director
http://www.datacarpentry.org/
Research Associate, MMG Dept., UC Davis

ErinBecker commented Jun 15, 2016

Thanks Anelda!

On Wed, Jun 15, 2016 at 2:13 PM, Anelda van der Walt <
notifications@github.com> wrote:

Some feedback from our call today (3 continents, 5 time zones):

  • encourage instructor trainees to teach the material that are
    available rather than develop their own material - especially the first
    time around
  • provide some more guidance on how to give feedback to other
    instructor trainees when they're teaching their trial lesson
  • some people might not feel comfortable to teach at their home
    institutions - we should try to help them find alternative spots to run
    their first workshop - other organisations iHubs, etc
  • various platforms for video meetings are now used, seems like Skype,
    Vidyo, Hangouts are all working (mostly)
  • try to create an awareness about our activities in Africa so that
    others planning workshops here are aware of our efforts and consider
    including these trainees as helpers or co-instructors in their workshops

Thanks everyone for your dedication and time! Please add what I've missed.


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe/ASSbf0Dqv9otvn_JliB5GPSrM1huj85Xks5qMGrcgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

Erin Becker, PhD
Data Carpentry, Associate Director
http://www.datacarpentry.org/
Research Associate, MMG Dept., UC Davis

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Jul 5, 2016

We had another check-in meeting with the guides today. Some of the points that were raised include:

  • remember to switch on "time zone support" when you're compiling a Doodle to find suitable times to meet or when you're sending out calendar invitations across time zones (otherwise you'll miss your carefully planned meeting)
  • we should remind our new instructors never to teach alone and never to teach without helpers

We had some great conversations about how to decide what should be taught during an instructor's first workshop. It's important that they understand who the audience is they will be teaching to and think about the aims of their workshop - why are they running it, what do they hope to achieve with this first one, and think about what could be taught in subsequent workshops. It might be good for less experienced instructors to teach lesson material that have reached some maturity rather than struggling through newly developed lessons and teach for the first time - case by case of course (my opinion here).

We hope to start working on a blog post about the experience in the next few weeks to share with the community.

Thanks as always for our guides' dedication and enthusiasm.

We will meet again in 3 weeks' time to compare notes.

anelda commented Jul 5, 2016

We had another check-in meeting with the guides today. Some of the points that were raised include:

  • remember to switch on "time zone support" when you're compiling a Doodle to find suitable times to meet or when you're sending out calendar invitations across time zones (otherwise you'll miss your carefully planned meeting)
  • we should remind our new instructors never to teach alone and never to teach without helpers

We had some great conversations about how to decide what should be taught during an instructor's first workshop. It's important that they understand who the audience is they will be teaching to and think about the aims of their workshop - why are they running it, what do they hope to achieve with this first one, and think about what could be taught in subsequent workshops. It might be good for less experienced instructors to teach lesson material that have reached some maturity rather than struggling through newly developed lessons and teach for the first time - case by case of course (my opinion here).

We hope to start working on a blog post about the experience in the next few weeks to share with the community.

Thanks as always for our guides' dedication and enthusiasm.

We will meet again in 3 weeks' time to compare notes.

@BillMills

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@BillMills

BillMills Jul 6, 2016

Contributor

Thanks, @anelda - this is great feedback! I'm looking forward to that blog post, but I also detect some seeds of a Guide's Handbook in these observations - keep the insights coming, thanks again.

Contributor

BillMills commented Jul 6, 2016

Thanks, @anelda - this is great feedback! I'm looking forward to that blog post, but I also detect some seeds of a Guide's Handbook in these observations - keep the insights coming, thanks again.

@apawlik

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@apawlik

apawlik Jul 6, 2016

Hi All,

Thank you for a fantastic work you have been doing. I am getting back on track after the move across the globe and would love to chime in. Maybe I could start with joining @weaverbel for the sessions she leads to see how things are done? I'm looking at the Etherpad and assume "your time" is SA time? So 7th July 11am would be 10pm NZ/ 8pm AUS? @weaverbel I'll ping you on a more direct channel to confirm.
Thank you all for all your efforts!

apawlik commented Jul 6, 2016

Hi All,

Thank you for a fantastic work you have been doing. I am getting back on track after the move across the globe and would love to chime in. Maybe I could start with joining @weaverbel for the sessions she leads to see how things are done? I'm looking at the Etherpad and assume "your time" is SA time? So 7th July 11am would be 10pm NZ/ 8pm AUS? @weaverbel I'll ping you on a more direct channel to confirm.
Thank you all for all your efforts!

@gvwilson

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@gvwilson

gvwilson Jul 24, 2016

Member

Can this issue now be closed?

Member

gvwilson commented Jul 24, 2016

Can this issue now be closed?

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Jul 25, 2016

Hi Greg, we've kind of been keeping this to note progress etc. We're
meeting tomorrow and can discuss where to move this record keeping to then.
Can I get back to you after our meeting?
Thanks,
Anelda

On Mon, Jul 25, 2016 at 1:00 AM, Greg Wilson notifications@github.com
wrote:

Can this issue now be closed?


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AG4Xpg2_VLhaT2bsIRa53ddKGYcbhzatks5qY-6TgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

anelda commented Jul 25, 2016

Hi Greg, we've kind of been keeping this to note progress etc. We're
meeting tomorrow and can discuss where to move this record keeping to then.
Can I get back to you after our meeting?
Thanks,
Anelda

On Mon, Jul 25, 2016 at 1:00 AM, Greg Wilson notifications@github.com
wrote:

Can this issue now be closed?


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AG4Xpg2_VLhaT2bsIRa53ddKGYcbhzatks5qY-6TgaJpZM4IkLCw
.

@gvwilson

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@gvwilson

gvwilson Jul 25, 2016

Member

Hi Anelda,

Of course - happy to keep it open indefinitely if that's easiest.

Cheers,

Greg

On 2016-07-25 5:05 AM, Anelda van der Walt wrote:

Hi Greg, we've kind of been keeping this to note progress etc. We're
meeting tomorrow and can discuss where to move this record keeping to
then.
Can I get back to you after our meeting?
Thanks,
Anelda

On Mon, Jul 25, 2016 at 1:00 AM, Greg Wilson notifications@github.com
wrote:

Can this issue now be closed?


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub

#118 (comment),
or mute the thread

https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AG4Xpg2_VLhaT2bsIRa53ddKGYcbhzatks5qY-6TgaJpZM4IkLCw
.


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AA3oziWhoIYAQWZ4Pq76Ur_LCCgQKNTVks5qZHxcgaJpZM4IkLCw.

Dr Greg Wilson
Director of Instructor Training
Software Carpentry Foundation

Member

gvwilson commented Jul 25, 2016

Hi Anelda,

Of course - happy to keep it open indefinitely if that's easiest.

Cheers,

Greg

On 2016-07-25 5:05 AM, Anelda van der Walt wrote:

Hi Greg, we've kind of been keeping this to note progress etc. We're
meeting tomorrow and can discuss where to move this record keeping to
then.
Can I get back to you after our meeting?
Thanks,
Anelda

On Mon, Jul 25, 2016 at 1:00 AM, Greg Wilson notifications@github.com
wrote:

Can this issue now be closed?


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub

#118 (comment),
or mute the thread

https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AG4Xpg2_VLhaT2bsIRa53ddKGYcbhzatks5qY-6TgaJpZM4IkLCw
.


You are receiving this because you were mentioned.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#118 (comment),
or mute the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AA3oziWhoIYAQWZ4Pq76Ur_LCCgQKNTVks5qZHxcgaJpZM4IkLCw.

Dr Greg Wilson
Director of Instructor Training
Software Carpentry Foundation

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Jul 26, 2016

@gvwilson Thanks. Perfect, let's keep this for now then.

anelda commented Jul 26, 2016

@gvwilson Thanks. Perfect, let's keep this for now then.

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Jul 26, 2016

We had our three-weekly check-in meeting with the guides today. Greg also joined.

Some feedback:

  • Super excited as our first 5 instructors have now qualified!
  • We have about 10 workshops confirmed in SA and Namibia over the next 5 months - all will be taught by a combination of new instructors and experienced local and international instructors.

Challenges:

  • Access to internet when qualifying instructors are not at their universities is a limiting factor for the qualifying steps (relies mostly on long virtual meetings with a need for video to demo lessons etc.)
    • Instructors have to purchase very expensive data bundles for mobile phones or tablets to connect from home.
    • Will follow up with possible sponsors and local service providers to see if they could step up with sponsorships.
  • Funding that has been obtained to help fund workshops is mostly available to South African workshops and we've been unsuccessful so far to obtain funding to support our new instructors in Kenya and Zimbabwe to run workshops there. Still looking into ideas to assist and team up with others who may be able to help host a workshop.
  • Flights for visiting international instructors have been double than what we have been budgeting for. We should allow a longer lead time to be able to purchase more affordable flight tickets and should maybe look for visiting instructors from the UK, Europe, Denmark to reduce costs. Will also be easier due to time zones which are more similar.

Thanks to our new instructors for their efforts to get qualified and thanks so much to the guides and other mentors without whom we would not have been able to succeed! Well done to all!

(Please add any notes I may have missed out on?)

Next meeting in 3 weeks' time...

Thanks,
Anelda

anelda commented Jul 26, 2016

We had our three-weekly check-in meeting with the guides today. Greg also joined.

Some feedback:

  • Super excited as our first 5 instructors have now qualified!
  • We have about 10 workshops confirmed in SA and Namibia over the next 5 months - all will be taught by a combination of new instructors and experienced local and international instructors.

Challenges:

  • Access to internet when qualifying instructors are not at their universities is a limiting factor for the qualifying steps (relies mostly on long virtual meetings with a need for video to demo lessons etc.)
    • Instructors have to purchase very expensive data bundles for mobile phones or tablets to connect from home.
    • Will follow up with possible sponsors and local service providers to see if they could step up with sponsorships.
  • Funding that has been obtained to help fund workshops is mostly available to South African workshops and we've been unsuccessful so far to obtain funding to support our new instructors in Kenya and Zimbabwe to run workshops there. Still looking into ideas to assist and team up with others who may be able to help host a workshop.
  • Flights for visiting international instructors have been double than what we have been budgeting for. We should allow a longer lead time to be able to purchase more affordable flight tickets and should maybe look for visiting instructors from the UK, Europe, Denmark to reduce costs. Will also be easier due to time zones which are more similar.

Thanks to our new instructors for their efforts to get qualified and thanks so much to the guides and other mentors without whom we would not have been able to succeed! Well done to all!

(Please add any notes I may have missed out on?)

Next meeting in 3 weeks' time...

Thanks,
Anelda

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Jul 26, 2016

Oh, we didn't talk about the blog post... I should mention that we received funding to the value of ZAR90'000 for flights for our international mentoring instructors who will work with the new instructors during their first training experience. The funding was made available by the Data Intensive Research Initiative of South Africa (DIRISA) - http://www.dirisa.ac.za/ - a great thanks to Anwar Vahed for securing this funding for us. I will write a blog post to acknowledge and could use this opportunity to summarise our journey to date - will share with everyone involved.

anelda commented Jul 26, 2016

Oh, we didn't talk about the blog post... I should mention that we received funding to the value of ZAR90'000 for flights for our international mentoring instructors who will work with the new instructors during their first training experience. The funding was made available by the Data Intensive Research Initiative of South Africa (DIRISA) - http://www.dirisa.ac.za/ - a great thanks to Anwar Vahed for securing this funding for us. I will write a blog post to acknowledge and could use this opportunity to summarise our journey to date - will share with everyone involved.

@wking

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@wking

wking Dec 9, 2016

Member
Member

wking commented Dec 9, 2016

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Dec 9, 2016

Hi @wking, thanks. Yes, I think we've done what we could. We need to summarise what happened and lessons learned and publish a blog about this. I think we can close this issue. Is it possible to get access to the text again after the issue is closed? I'd like to use our notes as reference for reporting back? Thanks!

anelda commented Dec 9, 2016

Hi @wking, thanks. Yes, I think we've done what we could. We need to summarise what happened and lessons learned and publish a blog about this. I think we can close this issue. Is it possible to get access to the text again after the issue is closed? I'd like to use our notes as reference for reporting back? Thanks!

@wking

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@wking

wking Dec 9, 2016

Member
Member

wking commented Dec 9, 2016

@anelda

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@anelda

anelda Dec 9, 2016

anelda commented Dec 9, 2016

@rgaiacs

This comment has been minimized.

Show comment
Hide comment
@rgaiacs

rgaiacs Jan 15, 2017

Contributor

Then we can close and we'll report back early next year.

I'm closing now and looking for your report back. :-)

Contributor

rgaiacs commented Jan 15, 2017

Then we can close and we'll report back early next year.

I'm closing now and looking for your report back. :-)

@rgaiacs rgaiacs closed this Jan 15, 2017

Sign up for free to join this conversation on GitHub. Already have an account? Sign in to comment